README.md, before:

![Heliactyl](https://github.com/OvernodeProjets/Fixed-Heliactyl/assets/73477238/fe5aaf5c-1c01-4145-b37a-b91b184354b5)

<hr>

# This is a fork of Heliactyl v12,

# Heliactyl • The modern client panel for Pterodactyl

All features:

- Resource Management (Use it to create servers etc)
- Coins (AFK Page Earning, Linkvertise earning)
- Renewal (Require coins for renewal)
- Coupons (which give resources & coins to a user)
- Servers (create, view, and edit servers)
- Payments (buy via Stripe)
- Login Queue (prevent overload)
- User System (auth, regen password, etc)
- Store (buy resources with coins)
- Dashboard (view resources)
- Join for Rewards (join Discord servers for coins).
- Admin (set/add/remove coins & resources, create/revoke coupons)
- API (for bots & other things)

<hr>

# Install Guide

## 1. Configuring heliactyl

### Pterodactyl method (easiest)

Warning: You need Pterodactyl already set up on a domain for this method to work

<strong>1.1</strong> Upload the file above onto a Pterodactyl NodeJS server [Download the egg from Parkervcp's GitHub Repository](https://github.com/parkervcp/eggs/blob/master/generic/nodejs/egg-node-js-generic.json)

<strong>1.2</strong> Unarchive the file and set the server to use NodeJS 16

### Direct method

<strong>1.1</strong> Install Node.js 16 or newer, it's recommended to install it with nvm :

- `curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.39.5/install.sh | bash`
- reopen a new ssh session (e.g., restart putty)
- `nvm install 16`
- check the node version with `node -v` and switch between versions with `nvm use <version>`

<strong>1.2</strong> Download heliactyl files in /var/www/heliactyl :

- `git clone https://github.com/OvernodeProjets/Fixed-Heliactyl.git /var/www/heliactyl`

<strong>1.3</strong> Installing required node modules (and build dependencies to avoid errors) :

- `apt-get update && apt-get install libcairo2-dev libpango1.0-dev libjpeg-dev libgif-dev librsvg2-dev build-essential`
- `cd /var/www/heliactyl && npm i`

After configuring settings.json, to start the server, use `node index.js`</br>
To run in the background, use PM2 (see PM2 section)</br>

## 2. Setting up webserver

<strong>2.1</strong> Rename exemple_settings.json to settings.json and configure settings.json (specify panel domain/apikey and discord auth settings for it to work)

<strong>2.2</strong> Start the server (Ignore the 2 strange errors that might come up)

<strong>2.3</strong> Login to your DNS manager, point the domain you want your dashboard to be hosted on to your VPS IP address. (Example: dashboard.domain.com 192.168.0.1)

<strong>2.4</strong> Run `apt install nginx && apt install certbot` on the vps

<strong>2.5</strong> Run `ufw allow 80` and `ufw allow 443` on the vps

<strong>2.6</strong> Run `certbot certonly -d <Your Heliactyl Domain>` then do 1 and put your email

<strong>2.7</strong> Run `nano /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/heliactyl.conf`

<strong>2.8</strong> Paste the configuration at the bottom of this and replace with the IP of the pterodactyl server including the port and with the domain you want your dashboard to be hosted on.

<strong>2.9</strong> Run `systemctl restart nginx` and try open your domain.

# Nginx Proxy Config

```Nginx
server {
    listen 80;
    server_name <domain>;
    return 301 https://$server_name$request_uri;
}

server {
    listen 443 ssl http2;
    server_name <domain>;

    ssl_certificate /etc/letsencrypt/live/<domain>/fullchain.pem;
    ssl_certificate_key /etc/letsencrypt/live/<domain>/privkey.pem;
    ssl_session_cache shared:SSL:10m;
    ssl_protocols SSLv3 TLSv1 TLSv1.1 TLSv1.2;
    ssl_ciphers  HIGH:!aNULL:!MD5;
    ssl_prefer_server_ciphers on;

    location /afk/ws {
        proxy_http_version 1.1;
        proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
        proxy_set_header Connection "upgrade";
        proxy_pass http://localhost:<port>/afk/ws;
    }
    location / {
        proxy_pass http://localhost:<port>/;
        proxy_buffering off;
        proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
    }
}
```

<hr>

# Updating

### From Heliactyl v11/v13 or Dashactyl v0.4 to Heliactyl v12:

1. Store certain things such as your api keys, discord auth settings, etc in a .txt file
2. Download database.sqlite
3. Delete all files off the server (or delete and remake the folder if done in ssh)
4. Upload the latest Heliactyl v12 release and unzip it
5. Upload database.sqlite and reconfigure settings.json

### From Heliactyl v15:

- This is currently not possible due to major differences between the versions
- You will have to install Heliactyl v12 and use a new database

### Move to a newer Heliactyl v12 release:

1. Delete everything except settings.json, database.sqlite
2. Put the files that you didn't delete into a zip file
3. Upload the latest Heliactyl v12 release and unzip it
4. Remove settings.json and database.sqlite
5. Unzip the zip with your old settings.json and database.sqlite

<hr>

# Running in background / on startup, on a server instead of within Pterodactyl

### Installing [pm2](https://github.com/Unitech/pm2):

- Run `npm install pm2 -g` on the server

### Starting the Dashboard in Background:

- Change directory to your Heliactyl folder Using `cd` command, Example: `cd /var/www/heliactyl`
- To run Heliactyl, use `pm2 start index.js --name "heliactyl"`
- To view logs, run `pm2 logs Heliactyl`

### Making the dashboard run on startup:

- Make sure your dashboard is running in the background with the help of [pm2](https://github.com/Unitech/pm2)
- You can check if Heliactyl is running in the background with `pm2 list`
- Once you confirm that Heliactyl is running in the background, you can create a startup script by running `pm2 startup` and `pm2 save`
- Note: Supported init systems are `systemd`, `upstart`, `launchd`, `rc.d`
- To stop your Heliactyl from running in the background, use `pm2 unstartup`

To stop a currently running Heliactyl instance, use `pm2 stop heliactyl`

<br>

> [!NOTE]
>
> # What happened to 13.x and 15.x?
>
> Due to major issues with both versions, we've decided to return to V12 and continue.
> The latest versions will be on v12 now.

> [!WARNING]
>
> We cannot force you to keep "Powered by Heliactyl" in the footer, but please consider keeping it. It helps to get more visibility for the project, which is getting better. We won't > provide technical support for installations without the notice in the footer. We may DMCA the website under certain conditions.
> Please do keep the footer, though.

> [!CAUTION]
>
> # Legacy Deprecation Notice
>
> Heliactyl v6, v7, v8, v9, v10, v11, v13, v15 is now deprecated as listed in our Discord and should not be used.
> Please update to Heliactyl v12 or use Heliactyl v14.

Commit message:

Remove annoying settings feature
(no more api.client for all settings its not just settings.j4r not settings.api.client.j4r)

tested✅

README.md, after:

![Heliactyl](https://github.com/OvernodeProjets/Fixed-Heliactyl/assets/73477238/fe5aaf5c-1c01-4145-b37a-b91b184354b5)

<hr>

> [!WARNING]  
> Fixed Heliactyl 12.8 and above are not compatible with older files (themes) due to major settings modifications. To fix this replace all of the settings.api.client with settings. Thank you for understanding.

# This is a fork of Heliactyl v12

# Heliactyl • The modern client panel for Pterodactyl

All features:

- Resource Management (Use it to create servers etc)
- Coins (AFK Page Earning, Linkvertise earning)
- Renewal (Require coins for renewal)
- Coupons (which give resources & coins to a user)
- Servers (create, view, and edit servers)
- Payments (buy via Stripe)
- Login Queue (prevent overload)
- User System (auth, regen password, etc)
- Store (buy resources with coins)
- Dashboard (view resources)
- Join for Rewards (join Discord servers for coins).
- Admin (set/add/remove coins & resources, create/revoke coupons)
- API (for bots & other things)

<hr>

# Install Guide

## 1. Configuring heliactyl

### Pterodactyl method (easiest)

Warning: You need Pterodactyl already set up on a domain for this method to work

<strong>1.1</strong> Upload the file above onto a Pterodactyl NodeJS server [Download the egg from Parkervcp's GitHub Repository](https://github.com/parkervcp/eggs/blob/master/generic/nodejs/egg-node-js-generic.json)

<strong>1.2</strong> Unarchive the file and set the server to use NodeJS 16

### Direct method

<strong>1.1</strong> Install Node.js 16 or newer, it's recommended to install it with nvm :

- `curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.39.5/install.sh | bash`
- reopen a new ssh session (e.g., restart putty)
- `nvm install 16`
- check the node version with `node -v` and switch between versions with `nvm use <version>`

<strong>1.2</strong> Download heliactyl files in /var/www/heliactyl :

- `git clone https://github.com/OvernodeProjets/Fixed-Heliactyl.git /var/www/heliactyl`

<strong>1.3</strong> Installing required node modules (and build dependencies to avoid errors) :

- `apt-get update && apt-get install libcairo2-dev libpango1.0-dev libjpeg-dev libgif-dev librsvg2-dev build-essential`
- `cd /var/www/heliactyl && npm i`

After configuring settings.json, to start the server, use `node index.js`</br>
To run in the background, use PM2 (see PM2 section)</br>

## 2. Setting up webserver

<strong>2.1</strong> Rename exemple_settings.json to settings.json and configure settings.json (specify panel domain/apikey and discord auth settings for it to work)

<strong>2.2</strong> Start the server (Ignore the 2 strange errors that might come up)

<strong>2.3</strong> Login to your DNS manager, point the domain you want your dashboard to be hosted on to your VPS IP address. (Example: dashboard.domain.com 192.168.0.1)

<strong>2.4</strong> Run `apt install nginx && apt install certbot` on the vps

<strong>2.5</strong> Run `ufw allow 80` and `ufw allow 443` on the vps

<strong>2.6</strong> Run `certbot certonly -d <Your Heliactyl Domain>` then do 1 and put your email

<strong>2.7</strong> Run `nano /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/heliactyl.conf`

<strong>2.8</strong> Paste the configuration at the bottom of this and replace with the IP of the pterodactyl server including the port and with the domain you want your dashboard to be hosted on.

<strong>2.9</strong> Run `systemctl restart nginx` and try open your domain.

# Nginx Proxy Config

```Nginx
server {
    listen 80;
    server_name <domain>;
    return 301 https://$server_name$request_uri;
}

server {
    listen 443 ssl http2;
    server_name <domain>;

    ssl_certificate /etc/letsencrypt/live/<domain>/fullchain.pem;
    ssl_certificate_key /etc/letsencrypt/live/<domain>/privkey.pem;
    ssl_session_cache shared:SSL:10m;
    ssl_protocols SSLv3 TLSv1 TLSv1.1 TLSv1.2;
    ssl_ciphers  HIGH:!aNULL:!MD5;
    ssl_prefer_server_ciphers on;

    location /afk/ws {
        proxy_http_version 1.1;
        proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
        proxy_set_header Connection "upgrade";
        proxy_pass http://localhost:<port>/afk/ws;
    }
    location / {
        proxy_pass http://localhost:<port>/;
        proxy_buffering off;
        proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
    }
}
```

<hr>

# Updating

### From Heliactyl v11/v13 or Dashactyl v0.4 to Heliactyl v12:

1. Store certain things such as your api keys, discord auth settings, etc in a .txt file
2. Download database.sqlite
3. Delete all files off the server (or delete and remake the folder if done in ssh)
4. Upload the latest Heliactyl v12 release and unzip it
5. Upload database.sqlite and reconfigure settings.json

### From Heliactyl v15:

- This is currently not possible due to major differences between the versions
- You will have to install Heliactyl v12 and use a new database

### Move to a newer Heliactyl v12 release:

1. Delete everything except settings.json, database.sqlite
2. Put the files that you didn't delete into a zip file
3. Upload the latest Heliactyl v12 release and unzip it
4. Remove settings.json and database.sqlite
5. Unzip the zip with your old settings.json and database.sqlite

<hr>

# Running in background / on startup, on a server instead of within Pterodactyl

### Installing [pm2](https://github.com/Unitech/pm2):

- Run `npm install pm2 -g` on the server

### Starting the Dashboard in Background:

- Change directory to your Heliactyl folder Using `cd` command, Example: `cd /var/www/heliactyl`
- To run Heliactyl, use `pm2 start index.js --name "heliactyl"`
- To view logs, run `pm2 logs Heliactyl`

### Making the dashboard run on startup:

- Make sure your dashboard is running in the background with the help of [pm2](https://github.com/Unitech/pm2)
- You can check if Heliactyl is running in the background with `pm2 list`
- Once you confirm that Heliactyl is running in the background, you can create a startup script by running `pm2 startup` and `pm2 save`
- Note: Supported init systems are `systemd`, `upstart`, `launchd`, `rc.d`
- To stop your Heliactyl from running in the background, use `pm2 unstartup`

To stop a currently running Heliactyl instance, use `pm2 stop heliactyl`

<br>

> [!NOTE]
>
> # What happened to 13.x and 15.x?
>
> Due to major issues with both versions, we've decided to return to V12 and continue.
> The latest versions will be on v12 now.

> [!WARNING]
>
> We cannot force you to keep "Powered by Heliactyl" in the footer, but please consider keeping it. It helps to get more visibility for the project, which is getting better. We won't > provide technical support for installations without the notice in the footer. We may DMCA the website under certain conditions.
> Please do keep the footer, though.

> [!CAUTION]
>
> # Legacy Deprecation Notice
>
> Heliactyl v6, v7, v8, v9, v10, v11, v13, v15 is now deprecated as listed in our Discord and should not be used.
> Please update to Heliactyl v12 or use Heliactyl v14.
